# Notes for 20th Giveth Governance Meeting Feb 01st, 2018

Link to video stream: [https://youtu.be/dNs3SgxZSTM](https://youtu.be/dNs3SgxZSTM)

Attending:

   * Griff - couplse own proposal, not distracted
   * Yalor - not distracted
   * Satya - not distracted, heater broken, cold
   * Vojtech - warm and undistracted
   * Jen - cold, not distracted
   * RJ - not distracted, trying to hear  
   * kay - distracted by writing notes
   * Arthur - bad audio
   * Alex- same unicorn tshirt distraction

Logistics: Facilitator Griff, Secretary Arthur

Toggle off: Nobody

## Agenda
Reporting
Team-Up -Google 4 calendar
Reward DAO
Communication budget
Objections as proposals
Loomio 4 governance

## Point 1
Tension: Good milestone reporting important.

Proposal: Add relevant links, Link to the video (upload or timestamp in governance meeting) - video becomes mandatory.

Clarifying questions:
    Q: Can video requirements be included in this proposal
    A: Yes

   Q: What is this for?
   A: everything but expense

Reactions:

   * Griff - Love it!
   * Satya - Make template and upload to Github issues. Establish a standard. Video should not be required.
   * RJ - Seconds. Video should not be required. Hates video.
   * Vojtech - hard, foresees situations where video is not the best medium. We should create a template.
   * Kay -  Should not require a video, but it should be encouraged. We should do videos as often as we can. Pro template.
   * Yalor - Agrees with Kay. Videos are kewl!
   * Oz - Sounds like adding videos to milestones. Obviously in favor. Video fan.
   * Edu - Loves the idea! Something should not be mandatory though. Videos can waste time.
   * Alex - After further review video proof should not be essential. Proof of work is needed and should be selected by case.
   * Jen - In favor of videos. Great proof of work. Understand that writing code doesn't serve to a video.

Amend and clarify: Obligatory to link to proof of work DONE (develop template). For reward DAO video is obligatory, for others it's recommended.

Result: Approved


## Point 2
Tension: Currently using teamup, this was not passed. This is not user friendly or well integrated. Doesn't do time zones well.

Proposal: Use google calendar instead of teamup.

Clarifying questions:

   * Q; Why switch back we just switched
   * A: Google is neatReactions:

Reactions:

   * Vojtech: Supports this, new version of google is good.
   * Kay: Laying low on this one. ReadyCal is open source < 3
   * Arthur: Pro
   * Yalor: Yay
   * Oz: Yay
   * Alex: yay. Timezones are hard.
   * Griff: Only switch to an open source tool if we switch.
   * RJ: We should stop pussy footing around and PICK open source or google. JEEZ GUYS
   * Edu: Sounds good
   * Jen: Does not care AT ALL.
   * Satya: Google is probably evil but they shur do software some gud.

Amend and clarify:

   Go for Google calendar and explore open source down the line. Fragmentation is ;\_\_; that's a separate proposal.

   Result:
    PASSED

## Point3
Tension: RewardDao is available for only some regular reward people. They should not get this on top of their work. This is imbalanced.

Proposal: Regular reward people should not get #POINTS. Bias is a scary monster that lives in all of us.

Clarifying questions:  none

Reactions:

   * Alex: Agrees
   * Oz: *silence* Interesting point. Unicorn feature sounds good. Lets keep experimenting. Lets get weird.
   * Vojtech: Agrees
   * Satya: Sad about not getting more points. Doesn't like points. Internal struggle. What is work. Everything is work. Passed.
   * RJ: Agrees
   * Yalor: Agrees
   * Edu: Agrees
   * Jen: Agrees
   * Quazia: Agrees
   * Griff: Disagree strongly. Should give points to everybody all the time. Wants Unicorn points to reward cross-circle contributions.
   * Kay: Agrees. Peoples regular rewards should periodically be adjusted based on involvement. This system should not eat away at new contributors $$$.

Amend and clarify: Regular reward people will not get points but they will get unicorn points. Maybe some day they will matter. Right now they DO NOT. This is not retroactive.


Result: Passed

## Point4
Tension:  Need more money in budget for Yalor and Cleo.
Proposal: Kay moves to Governance

Clarifying questions:    

Reactions:

   * Griff: this sounds good. Lets not discuss budget.
   * Oz: Circles working together is cool
   * Jen: Good jazz yaya
   * Vojtech: Is this governance?
   * RJ: No opinion, circle decision.
   * Satya: Nothing
   * Edu: Passes
   * Alex: agrees
   * Kay: Makes sense, this is an announcement.
   * Yalor: Sounds good
   * Quazia: No objections

Amend and clarify: This belongs in the meeting. Kay is on Governance. Everything milestone from here on is in Governance.

Result: Passed


## Point5
Tension: Decision in the DApp circle was made that effected other circles.
Proposal: Read a wikipedia article on our governance. Actual proposal is to implement an objection instead of a tension. Be careful, we're playing with fire m8s.

Clarifying questions:

   * Q: How is this not covered in Loomio?
   * A: It might be.

   * Q: Is this part of reinventing organization?
   * A: yes, it's a modification

Reactions:
    Kay: Governance should be greased in general. This should be organic. ABSTAIN
    Jen: Sounds like a great idea
    Oz: Doesn't like the idea. This could be dangerous. Eat your own dog food this looks undercooked.
    Yalor: Sounds good from my understanding but I did not understand this.
    Edu: Makes sense - good for me.
    Alex: Don't agree. Loomio covers all of this lets do it offline.
    Quazia: Maybe not the time for this right now, try other options first.
    Kris: Believes in communication. Discussing can waste time though. We should make this Social Codings problem HAAAAAAAAA.
    RJ: Something needs to exist for handling this situation. Maybe multiple mechanisms.
    Vojtech: Feels opinionated. Agrees there needs to be a process but don't abuse it. What is autonomy within circles. How do we know what impacts who?
    Satya: Circles should be able to decide for themselves but unclear who can do what.


Amend and clarify:

   * If you object in the future try this. Everybody read the gosh darn wiki article. Result: Tabled


## Point6
Tension: Decisionmaking is too much focused on real-time communication. This wastes time and energy.
Proposal: start experimenting with loomio

Clarifying questions:
    When should the loomio be evaluated? - no strong feelings

Reactions:

   * Kris - Likes idea to cut slack off meetings
   * Oz - worried about wishful thinking. there should be a deadline day.
   * RJ - having a place to discuss outside of meeting. supports idea.
   * Satya - sounds good. loves tool focus.
   * Yalor - I know nothing of loomio but like to open up and loosening meetings
   * Jen - Don't know the tool. Supports deadline day.
   * Alex - Personally thinks best option to cut down on meeting time.
   * Griff - Great idea. Deadline 12 hours before the meeting?
   * Edu - Any tool that makes us more efficient is great to try
   * Vojtech - Great idea. Can lead to even more work being spent on meetings
   * Kay - totally agree

Amend and clarify: Will look at hosting options.

Result: Passed


## **Recap**

   1. Encourage links to videos
   1. Google cal is replacing teamup
   1. Reg Reward can only get Unicorn points for now
   1. @geleeroyale moves to governance circle.
   1. Tabled
   6. Will start integrating Loomio


End of meeting:  7.45  pm
