# Notes for 21st Giveth Governance Meeting Feb 01st, 2018

[Youtube Live stream](https://youtu.be/iiqJ_0dlH4I)

Attending:
   * Kris: A bit distracted by what time it is LOL TIMEZONES
   * Kay: Distracted by "thing here" will help with notes
   * Alex: Not distracted here to participate
   * Oz: Has to leave in hald an hour
   * Satya: Not distracted no intentions.
   * Quazia: Also has to step out soon
   * Griff: Not distracted, proposing ScalingNow campaign.
   * Edu: Excited to see what ScalingNow is.
   * Vojtech: Not distracted, believe that the loomio proposal already passed. Talk about edcon
   * Lanski: Toggled off

Logistics: Facilitator Griff, Secretary Arthur

Toggle off: Lanski

## Agenda
1. Scaling Now
1. Edcon
1. Meeting structure
1. RSK?
1. Loomio proposals 12h before

## Point 1 - Scaling Now!
Tension: Giveth needs a scaling solution.
Proposal: Griff makes campaign for scaling now

Clarifying questions:

Reactions:
   * Quazia: We can separate out the milestones easily, proposal is fine
   * Vojtech: Likes loomio proposal. first campaign other than giveth
   * Oz: Sounds great
   * Alex: *garbage mic/connection*
   * Kay: Affirmative
   * Edu: loves the project, loves the series.
   * Satya: Fine with proposal
   * Kris: Fine with proposal, can help with administration
   * Alex: collaboration is good

Amend and clarify:

   **The ScalingNow campaign will just be for fundraising. Campaign will start tomorrow**

   Result:  **Passed**

## Point 2 - EdCon
Tension: registration started and theres only 500 places. Who goes? Are we sponsors? Are we getting tickets?

Proposal: People should buy their own tickets to EdCon

Clarifying questions:
  ```
  Q: How much is a ticket?
  A: Now early bird 560, 350 for devs
  ```

Reactions:

   * Oz: makes sense, maybe circles can reimburse if appropriate.
   * Kris: Griff and Jordi are speaking, does Griff get extra free tickets? Who should be here? What is this conference for?
   * Kay: Doesn't know a lot about edcon. Circles should decide on who comes. Will not be going to edcon.
   * Satya: Not going. No opinion.
   * Alex:
   * Edu: Will be going to this conference. Will buy a ticket.
   * Griff: Is speaking, we will get a demo, everyone who wants to go should get a ticket. Circles should figure it out on their own.
   * Arthur: We have a policy for that - handle in circles
   * Alex: Agrees with Oz, handle this on a case by case basis.

Amend and clarify:
**It's up to every circle to decide. Everyone buys their own ticket.**

   Result: **Passed**

## Point 3 - Meeting Structure
Tension: Check in seems redundant. Tension seems like a waste of time.

Proposal: Drop the checkins

Clarifying questions:

Reactions:
   * Oz: We should just bundle the checkin and the weekly status together.
   * Edu: this seems fine
   * Griff: Excited to drop the video at the start of the meeting, meanwhile this is fine.
   * Vojtech: Sounds good
   * Kay: Agrees check in in a bit awkward. What people did in the week could actually be made longer. This meeting will evolve
   * Kris: Never seen the check in as too long. Still this is fine.
   * Alex: Agrees; add it to the video part
   * Quazia: Agree its fine to combine. Need this space for personal stuff, leaving early, distractions, etc.

Amend and clarify:
   **Checkin is what you did last week, just add additional information into this slot.**

Result: **TABLED/DROPPED**

## Point 4 - RSK
Tension: We are spending much time and effort on helping the Ethereum ecosystem develop scaling solutions for DApps.

Proposal: RSK is a possible solution. From next week test RSK.

Clarifying questions:
```
Q: Do you know of any dapps that are working on RSK
A: Huge List actually. But don't know them personally.

Q: How does RSK work?
A: I don't know

Q: What are the costs/what is needed?
A: The proposal would investigate that.
```

Reactions:

   * Griff: Their current system has a lot of huge issues. No Block explorer. No devs. We have a free solution - pretty much ready. RSK has same problems as other ETH clones. Underdeveloped Ecosystem. Why would we? Makes no sense.
   * Quazi: Major concerns - centralized authority. If goal is remove federal system would be bad to give control away.
   * Vojtech: Right now modifying DApp slowing progress. RSK is very much aligned with us. Don't feel the same support in Ethereum
   * Kris: All of Giveth is full hands on deck for current direction. Proposal sounds biased by personal meeting.
   * Edu: Likes project. Agree with Griff on status. Need to take also time to research other solutions. We need to know about other projects and continue to research it.
   * Alex: Should wait until done with Ethereum then  move o
   * Kay There is a lot of cooperation for us in ethereum, we have a great network effect from scalingNOW and we dont hear from the EF that much, but its fine because its decentralized. The main network works great.

Amend and clarify:
**If no one sees the point, I will table it.**


Result: **TABLED**

## Point 5 - Loomio
Tension: Ad-hoc agenda points lead to uninformed decisions

Proposal: No more ad-hoc agenda points. Has to be in Loomio before

Clarifying questions:

Reactions:
   * Kris: Good idea to start discussion on Loomio. More informed governance meeting.
   * Vojtech: All for it
   * Edu: Agree
   * Satya: Agree
   * Alex: Agree
   * Griff: Needs to be 12 hours. Global time-difference. Would have helped today.

Amend and clarify: **Agenda items have to be on Loomio 12 hours before governance meeting**

Result: **Passed**

## Point 6 - Get Alex on Multisig
Tension: Could use more signers on MultiSig

Proposal: Put Alex on MultiSig

Clarifying questions:
```
Q: Should stay at 6?
A: Yes
```

Reactions:
   * Kris: Y
   * Vojtech: Y
   * Kay: Y
   * Edu: Y
   * Satya: Y
   * Griff: Y. A little easy on security, but yea.

Amend and clarify: **Put Alex on MultiSig. Stay at 6 confirmations.**

Result: **Passed**

## Recap
   1. Scaling now campaign will be created tomorrow
   1. Attendees to EDCON pay tickets themselves. Circles discuss compensation.
   1. Check-in - Dropped
   1. RSK - Dropped
   1. Agenda items have to be brought to Loomio at least 12 hours before governance meeting
   1. Alex will be put on MultiSig

End of meeting:  7.15  pm
