# Giveth Governance Meeting #72


May 9th, 2019


[Youtube Livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DMYY1pK3pro)


### Attending

Dani, Bowen, Kris, Jeff, Marko, Griff, Loie, Josh

dropped-in: XXX
left-early: XXX


###  Check-in

Griff - onboarded new dev Andre, afrikaburn, robbery and ensuing crypto security overhaul, good commons stack narrative mtg, abbey jeff zargham sync. connecting in person with saun from ixo who's been promo-ing commons stack. let's have a good mtg, settle bcn plans, no dist

Jeff - Working to digitise Zarghams notebook and future box an attestiation graph on it. Working on articles and looking to push to people next week, steady stream intended from that point. Working on pitchdeck with Abbey & Zargham. Looking forward to Barca

Dani - Working on. event planning to get us out to barcelona, working around Dapp development. Strategising on redesign for 2.0 with Upfocus. Doing courses to learn to program and doing 11 week course on design thinking and regenerative systems. Ether bank campain. Updating tuts and wiki. Love what bowens up to with bridge mon and would like to hear more. 

Bowen - Working with Fredrick, to get a one button pay out your own milestone if your part of a whitelist. Bridge has delay button thats getting rolled out by frederik later today. Wants to know what else people are working on. 

Loie- Afrika burn, default world, robbery. Life stuff, catching up. Business card efforts and organising the offsite time. Getting back to dapp duties. Barca time planning. 

Kris - been sick, comms meeting yesterday, answering msgs, following up little bits. 

Marko - cant remember last week all crazy on all sides. Systems thinking and contributing to commons stack group, cant come to barca unfortunatly, hoping to get good ideas out of that gathering. Proposasl and next steps. Distracted by big to do list


### Logistics

Toggled-Off: XXX



## Agenda

*   Point1: Barcelona Retreat Schedule 


### Barcelona Retreat Schedule



#### Tension

People need to know dates to make travel arrangements


#### Proposal

28th arrivals welcome, giveth time starts 1st june, hardcore giveth time til the 6th. the weekend from there 7th-9th or 10th is yet to be determined, but still together time, a little looser, maybe focused towards an off-site 

Communicate to outside what we got done/did 
SO: PLEASE ARRIVE BY MAY 31ST. Most important giveth time is 1st to 6th. After that the schedule is looser, all will be wrapped up by June 11th. 

#### Clarifying Questions

Is commons stack post stealth? Are we geting inclusive there with and inviting outsiders that are 

Do we have to leave after the 11th? 
- Nope! Welcome to stay at the hackerpad. Discuss it with us but know the space is intended for this :) 11th is just when scheduled activities end

#### Reactions

Griff - will be a fun event to get folks in sync! 
HAve a huge new place with 13 beds if we need overflow theres plenty of floorspace etc. Be good to talk direction of Dapp and community

Jeff - Face to face will be good as we are fragmented. No objections.

Bowen - This sounds really exciting but won't make it. Hoping we'll all be in a room so he can come chill via video. All sounds great to me no objectons

Loie- appreciates Dani for putting together all the bits so thankful. 

Kris - no objections, will be there! 

Josh - sounds good, thx dani for cat herding and Gus and Loie's suggestions

Marko - not coming :-(


#### Amend and Clarify

1-11 we'll be there theres some stuff in loomio. 

#### Result

Passed

### Fireside chat topics:

#### Kris - survey thing
The survey ppl decided they would indeed like a way to offer us this for free, but would need some way for it to be regenerative for them. Brainstorm what could we offer?
- video blogging of the process what it's like to go thru their system
- accepting crypto as a business, tutorial/consulting by griff

#### Dani - dapp 2.0 design
Doesn't make sense to implement many of the changes to our current impelmentation so we've been tucking it away for 2.0. That time is near upon us. We have Marko now, and want to start having regualr giveth design meetings. 
Marko - should we be saving our time for current github issues question... how long will it really take us to redesign stuff and push it live? i'm thinking sprints and fix burning issues in small steps we can take, but doing that from a 2.0 mindset. 

#### Bowen - 2 min bridge mon show n tell

#### Loie - What do when not Cardona
- altruism moment (like last year feeding the homeless)
- graffiti tour
- beach day
- hiking
- better mushies
- 
## Recap

XXX

## Check-out

XXX: Checkout

## End of meeting

00:00
