**Giveth Community Meeting 81 Oct 30**

Attendees: Griff, Loie, Jeff, Kris, Dani, Bowen, Kay, Josh, Gustavo

Livestream link [here](https://youtu.be/s-ltrLM9T8w)
Check-in 

Agenda Points: 

- Future of the Giveth DApp 1.0/2.0
    - 1.0:
        - Amin is coming up to speed on 1.0
        - Andre is up to speed but ramping down availability to 20%
        - If we go lower than 20% we should shut it down
    - So .. 2.0!
        - Max has really dived in, Kay is collaborating too, others welcom
        - Griff would really like to receive a proposal from G2.0 to the Commons Stack
        - Meeting on Nov 6th to kick this off
        - Add [dapp2.0 room](https://riot.im/app/#/room/!zFyfjCfKHawjZJcueK:matrix.org?via=matrix.org) to riot overview (kay)

    - 300 ETH for matching Security?
        - Has been sitting for 2 years waiting to audit bridge or something on 1.0
        - How much has been spent on Security, let's match that and add to the DAC? (Griff proposal)
        - This is a moral question - no contractual commitment, just an idea with the Donation Doubler that did not play out as envisioned
            - Vojtech, Griff, Jordi, Grace, etc.possibly have to sign off on use
        - Proposal to map out how much was spent on security, divide by two then donate that amount to DAC
            - Work done by eg Bowen on the bridge
            - Loie: definitely makes sense to do this
            - Bowen: Thought this decision was already made. Bowen can do this pretty easily bcs he did a lot of work on this. 
            - Josh: Have 3 security consultants that could help with more auditing if needed. Seems reasonable to do this. Check with the delegates (=griff&jordi)
            - Kris: Would definitely do this. Fill any open Milestones, we have done loads of things on security, not just bowen's work, loads of dev work has improved the security on the DApp. Only Jordi & Griff need to sign off.
            - Dani: Easy win for work done on security work. 
            - Kay: If this was decided earlier, go for it. Delegates' ok is enough. Agree with Kris, fill old Milestones.
            - Jeff: Support filling of open Milestones!
            - Bowen will map out, Griff will follow up. **Proposal passed!**
    - Unicef Grant?
        - Loie went to Tijuana, submitted the grant
        - Just heard back that there is a chance we can get it!
        - We have to fill out 17+ documents.... sooo much admin 
        - What do we do to move forward with it? 
        - Alibre gets the money... 
            - Some of it will go to the DApp... but some won't :-(
            - Rafa isn't taking up a very active dapp role
        - Should Lorelei manage this?
            - without us taking a role here, we will not have a great chance of getting the grant
            - Does it make sense with the 2.0 plan?
            - Dani might be down to look at it.
            - Note griff: We will prob not be getting these funds for the next 6 months
            - Josh: normally alibre should do the forms

- Open Milestones payments
    - No awareness of which Milestones are open
    - Initially this was going to be covered by the Unicorn DAC
    - Hopefully this can go through the 300eth
    - Dani will do some catherding starting 
- Future of Giveth Communications
    - Kris is RTing but not making original content
        - The plan is to RT Commons Stack, will RT a few other community focused ethereum tweets
        - we are all big giveth lovers... if there is content to keep the riot rooms going, please share!
    - Riot rooms have new people coming in!
        - Would like to do more tweeting!
        - Should we tweet about our pause and 2.0?
        - How do roles stay sustained?
    - CS posts will migrate to CS medium. Proposal by Kris to make an 'exit post' with where our efforts are currently focused on + learnings
- RewardDAO
    - We have points that were dished? 
        - We need to do one more?
        - we have 5 ETH
    - Too much overhead for what its worth
        - Good experiment, money doesnt always help motivate people
        - its a good way to say thank you
        - Dani will sched a wrap up 
- Commons Stack next steps
    - Stuff is happening!
        - Push coming on Nov 5th 
        - New website, articles published recently, whitepaper coming as well
        - Not a lot of work needed now... but hopefully soon!
        - If you want to support Giveth, send them all in the direction of the CS! (funding needed)
        - Please join the CS community, both telegram convo and the Trusted Seed: commonsstack.org/apply
- Letter of Intent to work with 2key?
    - Integrate [this tool](https://test.2key.io/QmWjKRnnNbnzRpkJxKS1edmZJqFS4en3YX6JJxLxef3SVC) to Giveth
    - Letter of intent to freely shill Giveth as a partner for their ICO
    - Griff will check back in in a week or two with them (when they ask him) 
- What everyone is up to and what their plans are for the next weeks/months -> [see loomio for more detail](https://www.loomio.org/d/6OdG3aXK/what-s-next-for-giveth-)